.TH KVIRC 1 "02/09/2009" Version 4.0.0
.SH NAME
KVIrc - an Internet Relay Chat client.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kvirc [options] [server [port]] [ircurl [ircurl [...]]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
KVIrc is a Visual Internet Relay Chat client based on the Qt library.
.PP
It is intended to be an "user friendly" interface to the IRC protocol (see \fIRFC1459\fP)
and its extensions.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIKVIrc\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B  \-h, \-\-help
Display a list of all commandline options and exit.
.TP 8
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output the version info.
.TP 8
.B \-c \fI<file>\fP
Use \fI<file>\fP as configuration file instead of ~/.kvirc4.rc .
Defaults to $HOME/.kvirc4.rc if \fI<file>\fP doesn't exists
.TP 8
.B \-n \fI<file>\fP
Use \fI<file>\fP as configuration file instead of ~/.kvirc4.rc .
Create \fI<file>\fP if it doesn't exist.
.TP 8
.B \-f
Force a new KVIrc session, even if there is already a running one.
.TP 8
.B \-e \fI<commands>\fP
If a KVIrc session is already running, execute the \fI<commands>\fP
in that session, otherwise startup normally and execute \fI<commands>\fP.
\fI<commands>\fP must be a single shell token.
You can eventually use this switch more than once.
.TP 8
.B \-x \fI<commands>\fP
If a KVIrc session is already running, execute the \fI<commands>\fP
in that session, otherwise do nothing and exit.
\fI<commands>\fP must be a single shell token.
You can eventually use this switch more than once.
.TP 8
.B \-r \fI<commands>\fP
If a KVIrc session is already running, execute the \fI<commands>\fP
in that session, otherwise start up normally (do not execute).
\fI<commands>\fP must be a single shell token.
You can eventually use this switch more than once.
.TP 8
.B \-m
If a KVIrc session is already running, show an informational popup dialog
instead of writing to the console.
This is useful when starting KVIrc from a graphical taskbar button.
.TP 8
.B [server]
Connect to this server after startup.
.TP 8
.B [port]
Use this port for connection.
This option requires also a server name.
.TP 8
.B [ircurl]
An URL in the following form:

  irc[6]://<server>[:<port>][/<channel>[?<pass>]]

For each URL on the commandline create a new irc-context
and attempt to connect to <server> on the specified <port>.
The optional <channel> is joined just after the connection
has been established.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B KVIRC_LANG
Language setting.
If not set KVIrc will check for $LANG
.TP 8
.B LANG
Language setting.
If not set (or set to 'EN','POSIX' or 'C') KVIrc will use the default language (English).
.TP 8

.SH FILES

\fB$PREFIX\fP/share/kvirc/\fBVERSION\fP/*
Directory with the global KVIrc settings, modules etc...

\fB$HOME\fP/.kvirc4.rc . This is the first file that KVIrc looks for.
If the \-c commandline option is specified , the file passed
as the option parameter is used instead of this one.
If the file is found , KVIrc reads the first non-empty line
and treats it as the path to the \fIKVIrc Local directory\fP.
If the file can not be found or the \fIKVIrc Local directory\fP
is not existing , KVIrc enters the setup mode and allows
selecting a new \fIKVIrc Local directory\fP.

\fBKVIrc Local directory\fP/*
Directory with the local (per user) KVIrc settings.
Similar to the global one.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1)
.BR talk (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  1999-2009 Szymon Stefanek and The KVIrc Development Team

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.

.SH SUGGESTIONS AND BUG REPORTS
Any bugs found (and feature requests) should be reported to the tracker
at:
\fI<https://github.com/kvirc/KVIrc/issues/>\fP

.SH OFFICIAL WWW SITE

http://www.kvirc.net
In Russian - http://www.kvirc.net.ru

.SH AUTHORS
Szymon 'Pragma' Stefanek \fI<pragma at kvirc dot net>\fP

Code, fixes, new features, and much more from
Alessandro 'Noldor@freenode' Carbone, Elvio 'HelLViS69@freenode' Basello, Fabio 'CtrlAltCa@freenode' Bas, Alexey 'Alexey@freenode' Uzhva, Voker57@freenode

Old authors

With patches, fixes, extensions, and more from
[Anodine]@efnet, Till 'BuTi@ircnet' Busch, Fritz 'KNFritz@ircnet' Elfert, RAD Kade 1

With bug-hunting, hard-thinking, eyes-consuming,
nights spent on IRC, great suggestions and more from lots
of people all over the net, including but not limited to
Paul 'infected@ircnet' Boehm, Olle 'Crocodile@ircnet' H\[:a]lln\[:a]s, Diablo@ircnet,
Andrew 'Drosha@ircnet' Frolov, MalboroLi@ircnet, munehiro@ircnet
